README.md, before:

# Glasgow Necropolis

[View the Live Project here](https://lizac9.github.io/project1-glasgow-necropolis/)

This is a website promoting Glasgow Necropolis, situated in Glasgow, Scotland. The purpose of this website is to provide practical information about the location, history and opening hours of the Necropolis. The website also includes the option to book a tour using an interactive form and contains some photographic resources to encourage tourism.

![Site view across devices](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660419630/project1-glasgow-necropolis/screens1_xzxsm8.png)

## Table of Contents

+ [Features](#features)
+ [UX/UI](#uiux "UX/UI")
  + [Colour Scheme](#colour-scheme)
  + [Typography](#typography)
+ [Existing Features](#existing-features)
  + [Navigation Bar](#navigation-bar)
  + [The Landing Page Image](#the-landing-page-image)
  + [Intro](#intro)
  + [Location and Opening Hours](#location-and-opening-hours)
  + [Footer](#footer)
  + [History](#history)
  + [Book a Tour](#book-a-tour)
+ [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
  + [Languages Used](#languages-used)
+ [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries--programs-used)
+ [Testing](#testing)
  + [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)
  + [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  + Bugs
+ [Deployment](#deployment)
+ [Credits](#credits)
  + [Content](#content)
  + [Media](#media)
+ [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Features:
### UI/UX:
#### **Colour Scheme:**
- The main colours used are in a grey scale. The text is pulled forward from the background, assisting legibility. These colours also compliment the illustration and photographic resources on the website, maintaining a balance and consistency throughout. 
In the event of creating print media, the previous use of grey scale in the “branding” of the Necropolis will be far more cost effective in printing and designing expenses. 

#### **Typography:**
- The IM Fell English font is the main font used throughout the whole website with Sans Serif as the fallback font in case for any reason the font isn't being imported into the site correctly. The website header uses Grenze Gotish font with sans-serif as backup. The fonts stylised but tidy and legible appearance were my reasons for choosing it for this website. This font compliments the visual atmosphere of the Necropolis itself, without being too distracting.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

### Existing Features:

#### **Navigation Bar:**

- Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Home page, History and Book a Tour page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
Through the navigation bar, the user can easily move around and take full advantage of all the features provided by the website.

![Navigation bar](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660419935/project1-glasgow-necropolis/navigation_bar_byewas.png)


#### **The Landing Page Image:**

- The landing page image shows one of the mausoleums from the Cemetery, this visually engages the visitor upon entering the website.

![Index](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660418340/project1-glasgow-necropolis/glasgow-necro_lsgjbd.jpg)

#### **Intro:**

- The introduction is brief and informative. It emphasises the cemetery's position in the history of Europe and highlights the beautiful juxtapositions between the cemetery and the city that surrounds it. 

![intro](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660420250/project1-glasgow-necropolis/intro_zzkdbi.png)


#### **Location and Opening Hours:**

- Information provided to the webpage visitor on the cemetery's location and its opening hours. 
- There is a detailed map provided to include coordinates of the cemetery.


#### **Footer:**

- This section is dedicated to the cemetery's social media links. 
- The footer section is set to appear continuously throughout the website so that it can be easily accessed at any time.

![Social links](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660420469/project1-glasgow-necropolis/socialmediaicons_gxxbuj.png)

#### **History:**

- This section expands on the websites introductory information. A general overview of the cemetery's history is displayed for the visitor. 


#### **Book a Tour:**

- This section allows visitors the option to book a personal tour of the cemetery. This is carried out through interactive text boxes. 
- The form is filled in and submitted. The user is then notified with a confirmation message on a new page. 

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Technologies Used

### **Languages Used:**
- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/):
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'IM Fell English' and 'Grenze Gothish' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
2. [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/):
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/):
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
4. [GitHub](https://github.com/):
    - GitHub is used to store the project's code after being pushed from Git.
5. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/):
    - Balsamiq was used to create the wireframes during the design process.
6. [Am I responsive?](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https%3A%2F%2Fbytes.dev):
    - This application was used for visualization of responsiveness.
7. [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/):
    - Cloudinary was used to store and link the images.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Testing

#### **Validator Testing:**
The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.
- [W3C Markup Validator - Results](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?showsource=yes&showoutline=yes&showimagereport=yes&doc=https%3A%2F%2Flizac9.github.io%2Fproject1-glasgow-necropolis%2Fform.html)
- [W3C CSS Validator - Results](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Flizac9.github.io%2Fproject1-glasgow-necropolis%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en)

The website was also tested through Lighthouse on Chrome for its Accessibility Score.

![Lighthouse](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660581098/project1-glasgow-necropolis/lighthouse_vmbcgn.png)

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

#### **Manual Testing:**
|  Feature | Expectation | Action | Result|
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Logo Icon** | Home page will open when clicked | Click Logo Icon | Home page opened when clicked |
| **Navigation Menu** | The page will open when clicked | Click menu links | Taken to selected page |
| **Social link icons** | To go to external link | Click on icon | Social link opens on new page |
| **Required form fields** | If the text boxes are left blank, they will highlight with the message | Incomplete form | Form does not submit and highlights empty boxes|
| **Form submit button** | When the submit button is pressed, the form submits| Complete form | Thank you page opens 

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Deployment
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps:
1. In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
2. From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
3. Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.
4. The live link can be found [HERE - Glasgow Necropolis](https://lizac9.github.io/project1-glasgow-necropolis/).

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Credits

#### **Content:**
- The content for the History was taken from Glasgow Necropolis article in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glasgow_Necropolis#History) and [Atlas Obscura](https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/glasgow-necropolis).

#### **Media:**
- The image used on the Home Index page was taken with an analog film camera Minolta X-700 by me.
The image used for the History page was taken from the [Glasgow Necropolis.org](https://www.glasgownecropolis.org/) website. 


## Acknowledgements

- Martina Terlevic: My mentor, for all their guidance and expertise. 
- Lauren-Nicole: Fellow student, for their patience and assistance.
- Code Institute for their support.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

Commit message:

Add debugging to the README.md

README.md, after:

# Glasgow Necropolis

[View the Live Project here](https://lizac9.github.io/project1-glasgow-necropolis/)

This is a website promoting Glasgow Necropolis, situated in Glasgow, Scotland. The purpose of this website is to provide practical information about the location, history and opening hours of the Necropolis. The website also includes the option to book a tour using an interactive form and contains some photographic resources to encourage tourism.

![Site view across devices](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660419630/project1-glasgow-necropolis/screens1_xzxsm8.png)

## Table of Contents

+ [Features](#features)
+ [UX/UI](#uiux "UX/UI")
  + [Colour Scheme](#colour-scheme)
  + [Typography](#typography)
+ [Existing Features](#existing-features)
  + [Navigation Bar](#navigation-bar)
  + [The Landing Page Image](#the-landing-page-image)
  + [Intro](#intro)
  + [Location and Opening Hours](#location-and-opening-hours)
  + [Footer](#footer)
  + [History](#history)
  + [Book a Tour](#book-a-tour)
+ [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
  + [Languages Used](#languages-used)
+ [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries--programs-used)
+ [Testing](#testing)
  + [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)
  + [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  + [Debugging](#debugging)
+ [Deployment](#deployment)
+ [Credits](#credits)
  + [Content](#content)
  + [Media](#media)
+ [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Features:
### UI/UX:
#### **Colour Scheme:**
- The main colours used are in a grey scale. The text is pulled forward from the background, assisting legibility. These colours also compliment the illustration and photographic resources on the website, maintaining a balance and consistency throughout. 
In the event of creating print media, the previous use of grey scale in the “branding” of the Necropolis will be far more cost effective in printing and designing expenses. 

#### **Typography:**
- The IM Fell English font is the main font used throughout the whole website with Sans Serif as the fallback font in case for any reason the font isn't being imported into the site correctly. The website header uses Grenze Gotish font with sans-serif as backup. The fonts stylised but tidy and legible appearance were my reasons for choosing it for this website. This font compliments the visual atmosphere of the Necropolis itself, without being too distracting.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

### Existing Features:

#### **Navigation Bar:**

- Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Home page, History and Book a Tour page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
Through the navigation bar, the user can easily move around and take full advantage of all the features provided by the website.

![Navigation bar](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660419935/project1-glasgow-necropolis/navigation_bar_byewas.png)


#### **The Landing Page Image:**

- The landing page image shows one of the mausoleums from the Cemetery, this visually engages the visitor upon entering the website.

![Index](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660418340/project1-glasgow-necropolis/glasgow-necro_lsgjbd.jpg)

#### **Intro:**

- The introduction is brief and informative. It emphasises the cemetery's position in the history of Europe and highlights the beautiful juxtapositions between the cemetery and the city that surrounds it. 

![intro](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660420250/project1-glasgow-necropolis/intro_zzkdbi.png)


#### **Location and Opening Hours:**

- Information provided to the webpage visitor on the cemetery's location and its opening hours. 
- There is a detailed map provided to include coordinates of the cemetery.


#### **Footer:**

- This section is dedicated to the cemetery's social media links. 
- The footer section is set to appear continuously throughout the website so that it can be easily accessed at any time.

![Social links](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660420469/project1-glasgow-necropolis/socialmediaicons_gxxbuj.png)

#### **History:**

- This section expands on the websites introductory information. A general overview of the cemetery's history is displayed for the visitor. 


#### **Book a Tour:**

- This section allows visitors the option to book a personal tour of the cemetery. This is carried out through interactive text boxes. 
- The form is filled in and submitted. The user is then notified with a confirmation message on a new page. 

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Technologies Used

### **Languages Used:**
- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/):
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'IM Fell English' and 'Grenze Gothish' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
2. [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/):
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/):
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
4. [GitHub](https://github.com/):
    - GitHub is used to store the project's code after being pushed from Git.
5. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/):
    - Balsamiq was used to create the wireframes during the design process.
6. [Am I responsive?](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https%3A%2F%2Fbytes.dev):
    - This application was used for visualization of responsiveness.
7. [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/):
    - Cloudinary was used to store and link the images.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Testing

#### **Validator Testing:**
The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.
- [W3C Markup Validator - Results](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?showsource=yes&showoutline=yes&showimagereport=yes&doc=https%3A%2F%2Flizac9.github.io%2Fproject1-glasgow-necropolis%2Fform.html)
- [W3C CSS Validator - Results](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Flizac9.github.io%2Fproject1-glasgow-necropolis%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en)

The website was also tested through Lighthouse on Chrome for its Accessibility Score.

![Lighthouse](https://res.cloudinary.com/lizac/image/upload/v1660581098/project1-glasgow-necropolis/lighthouse_vmbcgn.png)

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

#### **Manual Testing:**
|  Feature | Expectation | Action | Result|
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Logo Icon** | Home page will open when clicked | Click Logo Icon | Home page opened when clicked |
| **Navigation Menu** | The page will open when clicked | Click menu links | Taken to selected page |
| **Social link icons** | To go to external link | Click on icon | Social link opens on new page |
| **Required form fields** | If the text boxes are left blank, they will highlight with the message | Incomplete form | Form does not submit and highlights empty boxes|
| **Form submit button** | When the submit button is pressed, the form submits| Complete form | Thank you page opens 

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

#### **Debugging:**
The responsiveness of the website was challenging in general. The book a tour page was particularly difficult, the social media icons would be appear in the middle of the form instead of the bottom footer. This was resolved by assigning a specific height in pixels to the book form id. Then when it started to take shape, the form was not centered. This was fixed with a margin: 0 auto; applied in each part of the form boxes and buttons boxes. Devs tools and the application Am I responsive? help to visualize and resolve issues associated with using different screen sizes to display media. The website was launched in different browsers such as Chrome, Firefox and Microsoft Edge. Throughout the entire development, the website was tested in each phase.

## Deployment
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps:
1. In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
2. From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
3. Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.
4. The live link can be found [HERE - Glasgow Necropolis](https://lizac9.github.io/project1-glasgow-necropolis/).

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)

## Credits

#### **Content:**
- The content for the History was taken from Glasgow Necropolis article in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glasgow_Necropolis#History) and [Atlas Obscura](https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/glasgow-necropolis).

#### **Media:**
- The image used on the Home Index page was taken with an analog film camera Minolta X-700 by me.
The image used for the History page was taken from the [Glasgow Necropolis.org](https://www.glasgownecropolis.org/) website. 


## Acknowledgements

- Martina Terlevic: My mentor, for all their guidance and expertise. 
- Lauren-Nicole: Fellow student, for their patience and assistance.
- Code Institute for their support.

[Back to Top](#glasgow-necropolis)
